src/releng_docs/services_shipit.rst, before:

.. _services-shipit:

Service family: ``src/shipit_*``
================================

The Ship It family is a collection of smaller services that help us build, ship, and maintain Releases. There are a few different types of services:

* Frontend - This is where all user interaction with Ship It happens
* Pipeline - The Pipeline service is responsible for managing the end to end process of shipping a Release
* Steps - Step services implement discrete parts of a Pipeline
* Bots - Bots run regularly and are responsible for collecting information required by Ship It

``src/shipit_frontend``
-----------------------

:staging: https://shipit.staging.mozilla-releng.net
:production: https://shipit.mozilla-releng.net

Ship It frontend is a web interface, written in Elm, displaying to Mozilla Release Managers informations about:

- uplift requests for bugs on each Firefox release stage (Aurora, Beta, Release and ESR)
- automated merge tests
- detailed contributors informations

The goal of this project is to be fast, nice looking and always having up-to-date informations from multiple sources (Mozilla bugzilla, mercurial repository, patch analysis, ...)


``src/shipit_uplift``
------------------------

:staging: https://dashboard.shipit.staging.mozilla-releng.net
:production: https://dashboard.shipit.mozilla-releng.net

Ship It Uplift is the backend service storing and serving bug analysis for each Mozilla Firefox release versions: it's used by Ship It frontend.

Architecture:

- Python backend, written with Flask
- Hosted on Heroku (a dyno and Postgresql database)
- Stores analysis as Json in the postgresql database
- Authentication through Taskcluster (no local users)

.. note::

    There is no analysis or long running task in shipit dashboard. It "just" stores data and serves it through a REST api.


``src/shipit_bot_uplift``
-------------------------

Ship It bot uplift is not a service, it's a Python bot, runnning as a Taskcluster hook every 30 minutes.
It does the following tasks on every run:

- Update a cached clone of mozilla-unified repository
- List current bugs on shipit_uplift
- List current bugs for every release versions with an uplift request on Bugzilla
- Run a full bug analysis using libmozdata_ on every new bug (or bugs needing an update)
- Try to merge (through Mercurial graft) every patch in an uplift request
- Report the full analysis to shipit dashboard, so it can be displayed on shipit frontend.

.. _libmozdata: https://github.com/mozilla/libmozdata/


``src/shipit_pipeline``
-----------------------

TODO


``src/shipit_signoff``
----------------------

TODO


``src/shipit_taskcluster``
--------------------------

TODO


Steps
=====


Step Services API
-----------------

In order to ensure the Pipeline service can successfully managed Steps, each Step Service is required to implement the following API:
(TODO, flesh this out more)

* /
** GET - Returns all steps with status (TODO: probably need pagination and filtering here)
* /{uid}
** PUT - Create a new Step
** DELETE - Remove the given Step
* /{uid}/definition
** GET Returns the definition of the given step
* /{uid}/status
** GET Returns the status of the given step.
*** Currently, one of: in_progress, success, failure, cancelled
*** Probably need to add support for including custom service-specific status info.

Step Services are free to add additional endpoints past the required ones.


``shipit v1 and v2 interaction``
--------------------------------

Initially, shipit-v2 will compliment v1 by adding features, as opposed to replacing. The following is a implementation strategy for how that will work.

**ship-it v1 will solely be responsible for submitting and kicking off a new release**

.. code-block:: bash

    % curl -X POST -d "product=firefox&version=99.0" https://ship-it.mozilla.org/submit_release.html

releaserunner_ continues to behave as normal by polling shipit v1 for new releases and, when found, runs release_sanity_, creates taskcluster_graph1_, and notifies release-drivers of new release.
In addition, releaserunner will tell shipit-v2 about the new release and ask shipit-v2 to create a pipeline:

.. code-block:: python

    r = requests.post("https://mozilla-releng.net/shipit_pipeline", data={uid='foo', pipeline={}})

shipit-v2's pipeline will consist of steps representing the release. A step could be sign off step (shipit_signoff), or a taskcluster step (shipit_taskcluster).

shipit-v2 will also create a step for the shipit-v1 generated taskcluster graph (graph1) so that it can add that graph to the shipit-v2 pipeline as a dependency. This means that a taskcluster step can be passed an existing taskcluster graphid to track
rather than always creating a new one.

**How shipit-v1 taskcluster graph1 will differ**

Since graph1 is created by shipit-v1 and includes taskcluster tasks for doing sign offs and publishing releases, it will need to be trimmed and then offload its later tasks to shipit-v2 via subsequent steps within the pipeline.

And so, initially, graph1 will create all required tasks up until the first human sign off. This is easily defined by: 'the first "human decision task" within the graph'.

For example, here is an overview of what a Beta release comprises of in simplified form:

**Betas**

.. image:: img/beta_overview.jpg

In the beta case, graph1 would finish with 'push artifacts to release location'. There would then be a shipit-v2 pipeline consisting of a sign off step: 'publish release human sign off', and a taskcluster step: 'publish release'

The taskcluster 'publish release' step would comprise of the following tasks: publishing on balrog, bumping next version, updating bouncer, and informing shipit-v1 the release is complete (mark as shipped).

Release candidates would be implemented in a similar manner but since it contains more sign offs, shipit-v1 would offload more tasks to shipit-v2


.. _releaserunner: https://dxr.mozilla.org/build-central/search?q=path%3Apuppet%2Fmanifests%2Fmoco-nodes+releaserunner&redirect=false
.. _release_sanity: https://hg.mozilla.org/build/tools/file/c85a80e0c3e4/buildfarm/release/release-runner.py#l353
.. _taskcluster_graph1: https://hg.mozilla.org/build/tools/file/c85a80e0c3e4/buildfarm/release/release-runner.py#l501

``shipit authentication and authorization``
-------------------------------------------

shipit-v2, at least on initial design, will adopt Taskcluster auth services for both authentication and authorization

This means that rather than re-inventing the wheel or tracking user permissions, shipit-v2 will rely on Taskcluster for its client_, roles_, and scopes model when interacting with any shipit_* api and ui.

As part of a hardened security effort, shipit will then implement MFA either by extending the Taskcluster auth service or adding third party MFA integration.


.. _client: https://tools.taskcluster.net/auth/clients/
.. _roles: https://tools.taskcluster.net/auth/roles/

Commit message:

adds correct shipit host name in example api call, outlines options for auth

src/releng_docs/services_shipit.rst, after:

.. _services-shipit:

Service family: ``src/shipit_*``
================================

The Ship It family is a collection of smaller services that help us build, ship, and maintain Releases. There are a few different types of services:

* Frontend - This is where all user interaction with Ship It happens
* Pipeline - The Pipeline service is responsible for managing the end to end process of shipping a Release
* Steps - Step services implement discrete parts of a Pipeline
* Bots - Bots run regularly and are responsible for collecting information required by Ship It

``src/shipit_frontend``
-----------------------

:staging: https://shipit.staging.mozilla-releng.net
:production: https://shipit.mozilla-releng.net

Ship It frontend is a web interface, written in Elm, displaying to Mozilla Release Managers informations about:

- uplift requests for bugs on each Firefox release stage (Aurora, Beta, Release and ESR)
- automated merge tests
- detailed contributors informations

The goal of this project is to be fast, nice looking and always having up-to-date informations from multiple sources (Mozilla bugzilla, mercurial repository, patch analysis, ...)


``src/shipit_uplift``
------------------------

:staging: https://dashboard.shipit.staging.mozilla-releng.net
:production: https://dashboard.shipit.mozilla-releng.net

Ship It Uplift is the backend service storing and serving bug analysis for each Mozilla Firefox release versions: it's used by Ship It frontend.

Architecture:

- Python backend, written with Flask
- Hosted on Heroku (a dyno and Postgresql database)
- Stores analysis as Json in the postgresql database
- Authentication through Taskcluster (no local users)

.. note::

    There is no analysis or long running task in shipit dashboard. It "just" stores data and serves it through a REST api.


``src/shipit_bot_uplift``
-------------------------

Ship It bot uplift is not a service, it's a Python bot, runnning as a Taskcluster hook every 30 minutes.
It does the following tasks on every run:

- Update a cached clone of mozilla-unified repository
- List current bugs on shipit_uplift
- List current bugs for every release versions with an uplift request on Bugzilla
- Run a full bug analysis using libmozdata_ on every new bug (or bugs needing an update)
- Try to merge (through Mercurial graft) every patch in an uplift request
- Report the full analysis to shipit dashboard, so it can be displayed on shipit frontend.

.. _libmozdata: https://github.com/mozilla/libmozdata/


``src/shipit_pipeline``
-----------------------

TODO


``src/shipit_signoff``
----------------------

TODO


``src/shipit_taskcluster``
--------------------------

TODO


Steps
=====


Step Services API
-----------------

In order to ensure the Pipeline service can successfully managed Steps, each Step Service is required to implement the following API:
(TODO, flesh this out more)

* /
** GET - Returns all steps with status (TODO: probably need pagination and filtering here)
* /{uid}
** PUT - Create a new Step
** DELETE - Remove the given Step
* /{uid}/definition
** GET Returns the definition of the given step
* /{uid}/status
** GET Returns the status of the given step.
*** Currently, one of: in_progress, success, failure, cancelled
*** Probably need to add support for including custom service-specific status info.

Step Services are free to add additional endpoints past the required ones.


``shipit v1 and v2 interaction``
--------------------------------

Initially, shipit-v2 will compliment v1 by adding features, as opposed to replacing. The following is a implementation strategy for how that will work.

**ship-it v1 will solely be responsible for submitting and kicking off a new release**

.. code-block:: bash

    % curl -X POST -d "product=firefox&version=99.0" https://ship-it.mozilla.org/submit_release.html

releaserunner_ continues to behave as normal by polling shipit v1 for new releases and, when found, runs release_sanity_, creates taskcluster_graph1_, and notifies release-drivers of new release.
In addition, releaserunner will tell shipit-v2 about the new release and ask shipit-v2 to create a pipeline:

.. code-block:: python

    r = requests.post("https://pipeline.shipit.mozilla-releng.net", data={uid='foo', pipeline={}})

shipit-v2's pipeline will consist of steps representing the release. Example steps are: sign off steps (shipit_signoff) and taskcluster steps (shipit_taskcluster).

shipit-v2 will also create a step for the shipit-v1 generated taskcluster graph (graph1) so that it can add that graph to the shipit-v2 pipeline as a dependency. This means that a taskcluster step can be passed an existing taskcluster graphid to track
rather than always creating a new one.

**How shipit-v1 taskcluster graph1 will differ**

Since graph1 is created by shipit-v1 and includes taskcluster tasks for doing sign offs and publishing releases, it will need to be trimmed and then offload its later tasks to shipit-v2 via subsequent steps within the pipeline.

And so, initially, graph1 will create all required tasks up until the first human sign off. This is easily defined by: 'the first "human decision task" within the graph'.

For example, here is an overview of what a Beta release comprises of in simplified form:

**Betas**

.. image:: img/beta_overview.jpg

In the beta case, graph1 would finish with 'push artifacts to release location'. There would then be a shipit-v2 pipeline consisting of a sign off step: 'publish release human sign off', and a taskcluster step: 'publish release'

The taskcluster 'publish release' step would comprise of the following tasks: publishing on balrog, bumping next version, updating bouncer, and informing shipit-v1 the release is complete (mark as shipped).

Release candidates would be implemented in a similar manner but since it contains more sign offs, shipit-v1 would offload more tasks to shipit-v2


.. _releaserunner: https://dxr.mozilla.org/build-central/search?q=path%3Apuppet%2Fmanifests%2Fmoco-nodes+releaserunner&redirect=false
.. _release_sanity: https://hg.mozilla.org/build/tools/file/c85a80e0c3e4/buildfarm/release/release-runner.py#l353
.. _taskcluster_graph1: https://hg.mozilla.org/build/tools/file/c85a80e0c3e4/buildfarm/release/release-runner.py#l501

``shipit authentication and authorization``
-------------------------------------------

shipit (and services as a whole) will not rely on solely auth0 or current Taskcluster auth/scopes. Instead, shipit will use a combination of the two. Actual implementation design will be one of the following three options:

1. all services bar shipit_signoff will continue using tc auth/scopes as is implemented. shipit_signoff will use auth0 for reliable authentication and tc scopes/roles for policy mgmt (authorization)
2. all services switch to auth0 for reliable authentication and tc scopes/roles for authorization
3. add auth0 support into Taskcluster auth so that all of services, including shipit_signoff, can use only Taskcluster and get auth0 baked in for authentication.

(1) and (2) are stopgaps. (3) hasn't been determined to be even feasible and amount of work is unknown due to Taskcluster/auth0 unfamiliarity.


.. _client: https://tools.taskcluster.net/auth/clients/
.. _roles: https://tools.taskcluster.net/auth/roles/
